# Hypertext Transfer Protocol -- HTTP/1.1.

## Terminoligy

### message
The basic unit of HTTP communication, consisting of a structured sequence of octets matching the syntax
defined in section 4 and transmitted via the connection.

### request
An HTTP request message, as defined in section 5.

### response
An HTTP response message, as defined in section 6.

### client
A program that establishes connections for the purpose of sending requests.

### user agent
The client which initiates a request. These are often browsers, editors, spiders (web-traversing robots), or other
end user tools.

### server
An application program that accepts connections in order to service requests by sending back responses. Any
given program may be capable of being both a client and a server; our use of these terms refers only to the role
being performed by the program for a particular connection, rather than to the program’s capabilities in general.
Likewise, any server may act as an origin server, proxy, gateway, or tunnel, switching behavior based on the
nature of each request.

## 1.4 Overall Operation

Most HTTP communication is initiated by a user agent and consists of a request to be applied to a resource on some
origin server. In the simplest case, this may be accomplished via a single connection (v) between the user agent (UA)
and the origin server (O).

request chain ------------------------>
UA -------------------v------------------- O
<----------------------- response chain

## 2.1 Augmented BNF
All of the mechanisms specified in this document are described in both prose and an augmented Backus-Naur Form
(BNF) similar to that used by RFC 822 [9]. Implementors will need to be familiar with the notation in order to
understand this specification. The augmented BNF includes the following constructs: